# Open-FlashColumn-docs
documentation for the open-source flash column project

ABSTRACT:
Flash column chromatography is a method used in organic synthesis research to separate and purify chemicals. Compounds are separated by being forced through silica gel with a pressurized solvent, which separates them based on polarity. The project focuses on the research and development of a flash-column chromatography column that enables users to visualize the separation of compounds in real-time using an ultraviolet lamp and fluorescent silica. The system was constructed using a combination of 3D-printed components and commercial off-the-shelf components to minimize costs. Furthermore, the apparatus is designed for easy visualization of fractions, needing only a handheld UV lamp at 254nm to visualize the absorbance of each analyte as they separate. The 3D-printed components are designed to be durable against both chemicals and UV radiation, and can be manufactured on commonly available printers using standard filaments. The flash column can resolve a wide range of analytes and works with mixtures of ethyl acetate and hexanes. Separations are on par with or more efficient than traditional flash columns, and the system offers ease of use that falls somewhere between commercial flash chromatography machines and traditional flash columns. The low per-unit cost and commercial-off-the-shelf components make the system both affordable and accessible, making it well-suited for use in teaching laboratories and those on a tight budget. The project is intended to be open-source, with digital files published under a permissive license that allows others to reproduce the results and build upon the column. This ensures continued support for the project so that the system will be easily repairable.
